The earth has more than 350,000 species of flowering plants.
Flowers serve practical needs.
Flowers make pollen in order to reproduce and nectar for creatures that spread pollen.
Pollination produces nutritious seeds, fruits and vegetables.
The beautiful flower we see may look like this to a bee.
Some flowers reflect ultraviolet light in ways that create a hard-to-miss target.
We enjoy more than the flowers' beauty and aroma.
Yet some plants do not need beautiful flowers to reproduce.
Flowers, pollen, nectar and aromas are costly for plants to produce.
Those resources could be used for other purposes.
Yet plants make flowers in breathtaking abundance.
The hover generously created flowers in a way that brings us joy
and reminds us to trust him when we are anxious.
Take a lesson from the lilies of the field.
How they grow, they do not toil nor do they spin.
But not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these.
Our tongue can detect five basic tastes.
There is sweet, salty, sour, bitter and the rich savoury taste called umami.
But we enjoy not just five flavors, but possibly over a hundred thousand.
How?
As we chew, we also smell our food.
Chewing releases aromas that pass up into our nose through the back of our throat.
Taste and smell then combine to make the flavors we enjoy.
Our taste buds develop before we're born.
As an unborn baby swallows amniotic fluid, it may taste what its mother eats.
And is more likely to enjoy the same food she does.
We don't eat just to survive.
We love to eat.
It makes us happy.
The Bible says why?
That everyone should eat and drink and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.
What is color?
It's how we perceive wavelengths of light.
Objects that reflect all wavelengths of visible light appear white.
When an object reflects only some wavelengths, we see color.
Cells in our eye detect light and send signals to our brain.
We have three kinds of color sensing cells.
Those that detect red, green and blue.
How do we perceive other colors?
Mixing red, green and blue light changes the color we see.
This flower is yellow because it reflects red and green light into our eye.
With just three kinds of color receptors, we can distinguish some 10 million colors.
Color triggers our emotions.
Blue and green can calm us.
Red and orange can excite.
In the Bible, descriptions that include color help us learn.
Is there any doubt that God gave us the gift of color for our joy?
I put my rainbow in the cloud.
And it will serve as a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.
Our bodies are designed to move.
The way we move can be complex or precise.
It could require strength or stamina.
King involves the coordination of dozens of muscles.
Muscles are controlled by our brain and nervous system.
They support and move our bones, now powered by the food we eat and the oxygen we breathe.
Everybody part is a marvel of engineering.
The knee is designed to withstand repeated impact,
surrounding tissue cushions and aligns it.
Finding suggests that regular movement helps prevent joint damage.
The body is a machine that strengthens as we use it.
Movement helps us to stay healthy and feel good.
The body is a credit to its creator.
For by him, we have life and move and exist.
Our world is full of sounds.
Some are natural.
Others we create.
We can hear music before we're born.
And can develop a love of music as we grow.
We can compose music.
Be moved by it.
And replay it in our minds.
Musical instruments typically combine a sound generator which produces tones
with a resonator such as wood or metal which adds volume.
The design resembles our own vocal organs.
But few instruments compare to the beauty of the human voice.
Our hearing complements the voice.
We can listen to things that draw us closer to God
and use the voice he gave us to praise him with joy.
Praise Ja for Jehovah is good.
Sing praises to his name for it is pleasant.
Animals fascinate us.
We marvel at their speed, their agility and their strength.
Their beauty and behavior are a pleasure to watch.
Like us, they play.
Some even dance.
They are industrious.
A beaver dam can extend hundreds of meters.
Some can even be seen from space.
When we observe animals, we learn more about the creator.
Their instinctive wisdom reveals his wisdom.
He is caring and generous.
And he is a happy God.
Animals fascinate us because we are made in God's image.
We enjoy what he enjoys.
Especially our earth and its amazing animals.
They are his gift to us.
Let us make man in our image according to our likeness.
And let them have in subjection the fish of the sea
and the flying creatures of the heavens
and the domestic animals and all the earth.